tiflash: add the deploy.md doc (#2164)
pingcap/docs: reference/tiflash/deploy.md

---

> title: Deploy TiFlash Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Deploy a TiFlash Cluster
```

summary: Learn the requirements and methods of deploying a TiFlash cluster.
category: reference
---

> # Deploy TiFlash Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Deploy a TiFlash Cluster
```

> **Note:**
>

> > If you want to get a first-hand experience on how to use TiFlash RC version, contact [PingCAP](mailto:info@pingcap.com) for more information and assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you want to get a first-hand experience on how to use the TiFlash RC version, contact [PingCAP](mailto:info@pingcap.com) for more information and assistance.
```

This document introduces the environment requirements for deploying a TiFlash cluster and the deployment methods in different scenarios.

## Recommended hardware configuration

This section provides hardware configuration recommendations based on different TiFlash deployment methods.

### TiFlash standalone deployment

* Minimum configuration: 32 VCore, 64 GB RAM, 1 SSD + n HDD
* Recommended configuration: 48 VCore, 128 GB RAM, 1 NVMe SSD + n SSD

There is no limit to the number of deployment machines (one at least). A single machine can use multiple disks, but deploying multiple instances on a single machine is not recommended.

> It is recommended to use an SSD disk to buffer the real-time data being replicated and written to TiFlash. The performance of this disk need to be not lower than the hard disk used by TiKV. It is recommended that you use a better performance NVMe SSD and the SSD‘s capacity is not less than 10% of the total capacity. Otherwise, it may become the bottleneck of the amount of data that this node can handle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use an SSD disk to buffer the real-time data being replicated and written to TiFlash. The performance of this disk need to be not lower than the hard disk used by TiKV. It is recommended that you use a better performance NVMe SSD and the SSD's capacity is not less than 10% of the total capacity. Otherwise, it might become the bottleneck of the amount of data that this node can handle.
```

For other hard disks, you can use multiple HDDs or regular SSDs. A better hard disk will surely bring better performance.

TiFlash supports multi-directory storage, so there is no need to use RAID.

### TiFlash and TiKV are deployed on the same node

See [Hardware recommendations for TiKV server](/how-to/deploy/hardware-recommendations.md#server-recommendations), and increase the memory capacity and the number of and CPU cores as needed.

It is **not** recommended to deploy TiFlash and TiKV on the same disk to prevent mutual interference.

Hard disk selection criteria are the same as [TiFlash standalone deployment](#tiflash-standalone-deployment). The total capacity of the hard disk is roughly: `the to-be-replicated data capacity of the entire TiKV cluster / the number of TiKV replicas / 2`.

> For example, the overall planned capacity of TiKV is three replicas, and the recommended capacity of TiFlash will be one sixth of the TiKV cluster. You can choose to replicate part of tables instead of all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the overall planned capacity of TiKV is three replicas, then the recommended capacity of TiFlash will be one sixth of the TiKV cluster. You can choose to replicate part of tables instead of all.
```
